# jury duty
## September 14th, 2024

This week, I reported to the Brooklyn Supreme Courthouse for my first-ever jury duty assignment. To be honest, I was quite excited to receive my summons in the mail. I couldn’t help but think of the show [Jury Duty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jury_Duty_(2023_TV_series)), a reality/hoax series about jury duty. I watched it twice over the course of a month last year, once with Emma and once with my entire family. I convinced them all to binge the entire series during a family trip, and everyone loved it. I obviously knew that real life jury duty would be different, but before watching the show I didn’t really have a sense of how the court system worked. I was keen to see the details in real life. And as cliched as it is, I was excited by the possibility of doing my civic duty (lol).

I can’t say much about the case itself, but one fascinating aspect of jury duty is the strange level of intimacy created between members of the same candidate pool. After being stuck in the same waiting area for hours, you’re called into the courtroom and about half of the group is called up to the jury box for questioning. At this point, the judge will question each and every candidate about their life — what’s their name? What do they do? How long have they lived in Brooklyn? Who do they live with? Have they, or any of their loved ones been a victim of a crime? A witness to a crime? Participated in a criminal jury before? The answers to the questions paint a picture of the person’s life, which is the intention during jury selection. I obviously didn’t *really* know these people, but it felt uncanny—almost intrusive—to know “this person has lived in Prospect Heights for 15 years and owns their own restaurant. They were assaulted 25 years ago during a robbery. They have two kids in high school”. We were asked to come back a second day, and seeing my fellow jurors in the morning elicited a perplexing sense of *camaraderie*. I’m not sure why! Maybe it’s because we were in the same predicament. Maybe it’s because recognizing faces in the group moved them beyond *just* strangers. Maybe it’s because I knew intimate details of their lives. I was able to picture them at home with their kids in Gravesend Bay Ridge, or Williamsburg.

I ended up being excused by the judge on the second day. The trial was slated for two weeks, so I was mostly relieved, although a tiny part of me wishes I stayed on for the whole experience.